doc/faq.md, before:

# Frequentely Asked Questions

## How can I edit the speed of an animation?

After setting the keyframes of your animation, you can change the `animation speed` acting on the keyframes visible in the `Dope Sheet` panel.
The `Dope Sheet` panel gives you a complete overview of the keyframes and the joints involved in the animation. You can access the `Dope Sheet` panel from the top left menu called `Editor Type`, select `Animation` -> `Dope Sheet`.
If you click on the keyframes in the `iCub` or `iCubAction` rows you will select the keyframes for all the joints. You can refine the keyframe for the single joint by clicking on the corresponding row.

- The keyframes will appear yellow when they are selected, and white when de-selected.
- You will de-select the keyframes by clicking anywhere inside the timeline.
- Select with the mouse the desired keyframe.
- To select multiple keyframes, select the keyframes and press `Shift` at the same time.
- To select all the keyframes press `A`.
- If you drag the keyframe toward left or right you will change the animation speed relative to the selected keyframe.
- To move multiple keyframes, select the keyframes you want to move and press `G`.
- To scale the selected keyframe press `S`.
- To extend the time between two keyframes, select all the keyframes (press `A`) place the mouse cursor between two keyframes, and press `E`.


The following video shows some of the operations described above.


https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19833605/168836359-5c2158c9-cbb2-40d0-9231-21f5baad3cf4.mp4

## How can I edit the trajectory shape of the animation?

You can also adjust the animation curves through the `Graph Editor`. The Graph Editor displays all the trajectory curves for the animation of all the joints. You can modify the animation of the single joint to have a refined behavior. You can access the Graph Editor panel from the top-left menu `Editor Type`, select `Animation` -> `Graph Editor`.

- You can select the joint you want to modify from the `3D Viewport` window, the Graph Editor will display the curves the joint follows during the animation. You can directly modify the curve by dragging and dropping the keyframe.
- If you select the entire robot from the `3D Viewport` window (press `A`) you will see all the curves that the joints follow, again select a keyframe and you will modify the curve for all the joints.
- You can also modify the curve for the single keyframe by selecting a keyframe from the `Timeline` pane, right-click with the mouse button, choosing `Interpolation Mode`, and then choosing the desired effect.

The following video shows some of the operations described above.

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19833605/168836429-bf6d2f1f-cd3e-456c-bddc-c8fcc8a625dc.mp4

## How can I record the trajectories of the joint (without using Gazebo) ?

- First execute a yarp fakeMotionControl device, configured to work with the set of joints that you need (the names must match the joints name in the urdf opened by Blender):
```
yarpdev --device fakeMotionControl --name "/iCub/my_custom_set_of_joints" --GENERAL::Joints 3 --GENERAL::AxisName "(neck_pitch neck_roll torso_yaw)" --period 0.010
```
Note that the above command line demonstrates the possibility of mixing joints belonging to different parts of the robot body (head, torso).

- Connect the blenderRCB plugin to the robot part opened by fakeMotionControl. In the example above, you need to have the part `my_custom_set_of_joints` specified in the jason file loaded by blenderRCB plugin.
- Read the joints position from the yarp port opened by the fakeMotion control, i.e.:
```
yarp read ... //iCub/my_custom_set_of_joints/stete:o envelope &> traj.txt
``` 
The file will have the following aspect:
```
001 1733307092.852     0.0 0.0 0.0
002 1733307092.862     0.0 0.0 0.0
003 1733307092.873     0.0 0.0 0.0
004 1733307092.883     0.0 0.0 0.0
```
The first two values are the timestamp (a progressive counter and a time measured in seconds), than the second group of numbers are the encoder values of the three joints (indeed the fakeMotionControl instantaneously assigns to the encoder the value received as positionDirect command from the blender plugin). Please note that the trajectory is sampled with the frequency specified by the `--period` option of the fakeMotionControl (the recommended value is 10 milliseconds, as show in the example)
- You might also want to use different tools to record the encoders values, such as [yarpdatadumper](https://www.yarp.it/latest/group__yarpdatadumper.html)

## How can I replay on the robot a previosuly recorded trajectory?

TO BE COMPLETED

Commit message:

Added documentation for get_joint_identifiers.py file

doc/faq.md, after:

# Frequentely Asked Questions

## How can I edit the speed of an animation?

After setting the keyframes of your animation, you can change the `animation speed` acting on the keyframes visible in the `Dope Sheet` panel.
The `Dope Sheet` panel gives you a complete overview of the keyframes and the joints involved in the animation. You can access the `Dope Sheet` panel from the top left menu called `Editor Type`, select `Animation` -> `Dope Sheet`.
If you click on the keyframes in the `iCub` or `iCubAction` rows you will select the keyframes for all the joints. You can refine the keyframe for the single joint by clicking on the corresponding row.

- The keyframes will appear yellow when they are selected, and white when de-selected.
- You will de-select the keyframes by clicking anywhere inside the timeline.
- Select with the mouse the desired keyframe.
- To select multiple keyframes, select the keyframes and press `Shift` at the same time.
- To select all the keyframes press `A`.
- If you drag the keyframe toward left or right you will change the animation speed relative to the selected keyframe.
- To move multiple keyframes, select the keyframes you want to move and press `G`.
- To scale the selected keyframe press `S`.
- To extend the time between two keyframes, select all the keyframes (press `A`) place the mouse cursor between two keyframes, and press `E`.


The following video shows some of the operations described above.


https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19833605/168836359-5c2158c9-cbb2-40d0-9231-21f5baad3cf4.mp4

## How can I edit the trajectory shape of the animation?

You can also adjust the animation curves through the `Graph Editor`. The Graph Editor displays all the trajectory curves for the animation of all the joints. You can modify the animation of the single joint to have a refined behavior. You can access the Graph Editor panel from the top-left menu `Editor Type`, select `Animation` -> `Graph Editor`.

- You can select the joint you want to modify from the `3D Viewport` window, the Graph Editor will display the curves the joint follows during the animation. You can directly modify the curve by dragging and dropping the keyframe.
- If you select the entire robot from the `3D Viewport` window (press `A`) you will see all the curves that the joints follow, again select a keyframe and you will modify the curve for all the joints.
- You can also modify the curve for the single keyframe by selecting a keyframe from the `Timeline` pane, right-click with the mouse button, choosing `Interpolation Mode`, and then choosing the desired effect.

The following video shows some of the operations described above.

https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19833605/168836429-bf6d2f1f-cd3e-456c-bddc-c8fcc8a625dc.mp4

## How can I record the trajectories of the joint (without using Gazebo) ?

- First execute a yarp fakeMotionControl device, configured to work with the set of joints that you need (the names must match the joints name in the urdf opened by Blender):
```
yarpdev --device fakeMotionControl --name "/iCub/my_custom_set_of_joints" --GENERAL::Joints 3 --GENERAL::AxisName "(neck_pitch neck_roll torso_yaw)" --period 0.010
```

or, in case the number of joints to be recorded is high, you can use `get_joint_identifiers.py` to get the automatically the number of joints inside the URDF file and their identifying names in the order they appear inside the file:

```
yarpdev --device fakeMotionControl --name "/iCub/my_custom_set_of_joints" --GENERAL::Joints $(python get_joints_identifier.py <path_to_the_urdf_file> --get_num) --GENERAL::AxisName "($(python get_joints_identifier.py <path_to_the_urdf_file>))" --period 0.010
```

Note that the above command lines demonstrate the possibility of mixing joints belonging to different parts of the robot body (head, torso).

- Connect the blenderRCB plugin to the robot part opened by fakeMotionControl. In the example above, you need to have the part `my_custom_set_of_joints` specified in the json file loaded by blenderRCB plugin.
- Read the joints position from the yarp port opened by the fakeMotion control, i.e.:
```
yarp read ... //iCub/my_custom_set_of_joints/state:o envelope &> traj.txt
``` 
The file will have the following aspect:
```
001 1733307092.852     0.0 0.0 0.0
002 1733307092.862     0.0 0.0 0.0
003 1733307092.873     0.0 0.0 0.0
004 1733307092.883     0.0 0.0 0.0
```
The first two values are the timestamp (a progressive counter and a time measured in seconds), than the second group of numbers are the encoder values of the three joints (indeed the fakeMotionControl instantaneously assigns to the encoder the value received as positionDirect command from the blender plugin). Please note that the trajectory is sampled with the frequency specified by the `--period` option of the fakeMotionControl (the recommended value is 10 milliseconds, as show in the example)
- You might also want to use different tools to record the encoders values, such as [yarpdatadumper](https://www.yarp.it/latest/group__yarpdatadumper.html)

## How can I replay on the robot a previosuly recorded trajectory?

TO BE COMPLETED
